All right.
So let's start applying some style to our own web pages first.
I'm going to give you a quick challenge and that is to create a new folder inside your complete web
developer course folder called to see access and then create a new HGL file and display it both in your
text editor and in your browser just like this.
Everett Gehlot
All right I hope you manage that.
I'm going to do it by getting the complete web developer course open and then I'm going to right click
or control click and collect new folder I'm going to call it to dash C Ss and then I'm going to go back
to my text editor.
I'm going to create a new file just like that and then I'm going to save as and I'm going to save it
inside complete web developer course to see SS
and I'm going to call it web page wave style dot HVM eval it's still in DML file even though we're going
to have some cascading style sheets inside it.
There we go.
And then finally I'm going to go back into my CSSA folder here and just open up web page with style
in the Google Chrome and there it is.
So I'm going to say goodbye to my HELLO WORLD.
I'm going to do a quick test just to make sure that everything is linked up correctly so I've put some
text in there and I'm just going to refresh that.
There we go.
Lovely.
So I hope you manage to do that.
If you didn't it's just a bit of file manipulation really.
Now I'm going to put in the very basics to get us an HMO page.
As we've seen before so we'll start with an HP M-L tag.
Then inside that will have heads and then we'll have our body section and I'll just put in a title tag
as well.
So I like to have a title
we'll call it web page with style and then if we just refresh that you can see the content disappear
but where page with style has appeared there.
All right now there are actually three different ways of adding CSSA to your web pages.
I'm going to show you the first one in this video and this is in line at CSSA.
So very quick challenge can you create a pair of paragraph tags and put a sentence whatever sentence
you like between them.
Giffard
All right.
I guess that's a pretty straightforward paragraph tags are just a p inside the language brackets them
and all have the classic phrase The quick brown fox jumped over the lazy dog.
All right.
So now we've got a paragraph.
It's not style to.
So if we want to bring some style into this if we were going to use inline C Ss we would do the following.
Inside the paragraph tag then we would add a style attribute and then just as we usually have without
attributes we have an equals and then some quotes and then we can put any CSSA we like into this style
attribute.
So for example if I wanted to change the color of the text I might say color so that it doesn't work
if you spell color correctly.
But there we go color without a.
And then blue.
So you if you've got a colon in between then and that's how CSSA works you have the thing that you want
to change and then a colon and then the value of that thing.
So in this case color colon be fairly straightforward.
Save refresh and we have some blue text.
Nice and easy.
If we wanted to have text which was twice as big then we would add a semi-colon and we use a semi-colon
to separate different stylings so we might want font size and we might want to set the font size to
200 percent and that will then set the font size of this text to twice as big as it was before.
Let's have a look.
There we go.
I've just realized over the lazy dog there let's make it over.
Brilliant.
So that's really all there is to inline CSSA in terms of how it works.
I can give you a very quick challenge here.
Can you create an H-1 header tag with the content CSSA is cool.
And then make it green and half the size it used to be.
So each one tag with the content CSSA is cool but then green and half the size it would otherwise have
been go for.
All right.
How did you manage that.
H-1 tag of course just an H-1 in brackets and then says this is cool.
It certainly is.
So without any styling at all it would look like that with some style.
We set the color to be green and then if we wanted half the size we would use font size 50 percent.
All right.
Let's take a look.
Fantastic.
Now one thing that might be slightly surprising then is that it's got a lot smaller than you might expect.
That's because this percentage is actually relative to the default paragraph's size.
So if we make this 100 percent it will make it the same size as a paragraph.
So if we actually wanted it the same size as the usual one the default there is 250 percent.
So an H1 by default is two and a half times bigger than a paragraph.
But don't worry too much about that.
Looking at the specific CSL styles later on in this section.
For now though we're done with inline CSSA and in the next video we'll see how to add CSSA in a different
and better way.